# Quick Start: Using the Auto-Translation Workflow\n\n## Setup (One-Time)\n\n1. **Verify GitHub Secrets are set** (you already did this)\n   - `GEMINI_API_KEY` ✓\n   - `GEMINI_ENDPOINT` ✓\n\n2. **That's it!** The workflow is ready to use.\n\n## How to Use\n\n### Option 1: Write in English\n\n```bash\n# Create a new English post\nhugo new en/posts/my-awesome-article.md\n\n# Edit the file with your content\nvim content/en/posts/my-awesome-article.md\n\n# Push to GitHub\ngit add content/en/posts/my-awesome-article.md\ngit commit -m \"Add new article: My Awesome Article\"\ngit push origin main\n```\n\n**What happens automatically:**\n- GitHub Actions detects the English file\n- Translates it to Chinese\n- Creates `content/en/posts/my-awesome-article.zh-cn.md`\n- Deploys the site with both versions\n\n### Option 2: Write in Chinese\n\n```bash\n# Create a new Chinese post\nhugo new zh-cn/posts/我的精美文章.md\n\n# Edit the file with your content\nvim content/zh-cn/posts/我的精美文章.md\n\n# Push to GitHub\ngit add content/zh-cn/posts/我的精美文章.md\ngit commit -m \"添加新文章：我的精美文章\"\ngit push origin main\n```\n\n**What happens automatically:**\n- GitHub Actions detects the Chinese file\n- Translates it to English\n- Creates a corresponding English version\n- Deploys the site with both versions\n\n## Testing\n\nA test article already exists:\n- `content/en/posts/test-translation.md` - English test file\n- Check GitHub Actions to see it get translated\n\n## Monitoring the Translation\n\n1. Go to: `https://github.com/wewewexiao2008/hugo-eternal-blogs/actions`\n2. Look for the \"Auto-translate Hugo content\" workflow\n3. Click on the latest run to see:\n   - ✓ Files translated\n   - ✓ Commits made\n   - ✓ Site deployed\n\n## Best Practices\n\n1. **Always use proper frontmatter:**\n   ```markdown\n   ---\n   title: \"Your Title\"\n   date: 2025-12-20T10:00:00Z\n   description: \"Brief description\"\n   tags: [\"tag1\", \"tag2\"]\n   ---\n   ```\n\n2. **Write naturally:** The AI handles translation, so write naturally in your language\n\n3. **Review translations:** Check the auto-generated translations for accuracy\n   - Minor edits are normal\n   - You can manually refine them\n\n4. **One language per file:** Don't mix English and Chinese in the same post\n\n## Workflow Timeline\n\n```\nYou push code\n     ↓\n~1-2 minutes\n     ↓\nTranslation complete\n     ↓\n~1 minute\n     ↓\nSite deployed\n     ↓\nVisible at: https://wewewexiao2008.github.io/hugo-eternal-blogs/\n```\n\n## Troubleshooting\n\n**Q: The workflow failed**\n- Check GitHub Actions logs\n- Verify API key and endpoint are correct\n- Look for error messages\n\n**Q: Translation looks weird**\n- AI translation isn't perfect\n- Manually edit the translated file\n- Push the fix back to main\n\n**Q: Nothing happened after I pushed**\n- Wait 1-2 minutes\n- Check GitHub Actions tab\n- Make sure you pushed to `main` branch\n\n**Q: Duplicate files created**\n- The script avoids this automatically\n- Check file naming (should have `.zh-cn` suffix)\n- Delete duplicates if needed\n\n## Example Workflow\n\n1. You write article in English\n2. Push to GitHub\n3. Workflow automatically:\n   - Detects language\n   - Calls Gemini API\n   - Generates Chinese version\n   - Commits translation\n   - Builds Hugo site\n   - Deploys to GitHub Pages\n4. Site now has bilingual content!\n\n## That's All!\n\nJust write content → push → done. The rest is automated.\n\nFor detailed information, see `TRANSLATION_WORKFLOW.md`\n"}}}